mind your decisions i'm preshtalwalker
if x to the power of 5 is equal to 1
solve for all values of the sum of the
following four fractions
the first fraction is x divided by 1
plus x squared
the second fraction is x squared divided
by one plus x to the power of four
the third fraction is x cubed divided by
one plus
x and the last fraction is x to the
power four
divided by 1 plus x cubed
pause the video if you'd like to give
this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
we can get started by guessing a
solution to this equation
if x to the power of five is equal to
one then one value that satisfies this
equation
is x is equal to one we can substitute
this value
and then we can simplify each fraction
all four fractions become the same value
of one over two
the sum of these fractions will then be
equal to two
this is if x is equal to one but what if
x is not
equal to one we will show you we'll get
exactly the same result that the sum of
the fractions is equal to two
to see why we'll get started with x to
the power five is equal to one
we'll multiply both sides of this
equation by x to get x to the power of
six
is equal to x we'll take this equation
and then
multiply both sides of the equation by x
we will get x to the power of 7
is equal to x squared from here
we are going to modify each of these
fractions let's make
each numerator in the fraction x to the
power of 5.
the first fraction will multiply by x to
the power 4
over x to the power 4. the second
fraction will multiply by x to the power
of 3
over x to the power of 3. the next
fraction will multiply by x squared over
x squared and the last fraction we'll
multiply by x over x
we'll simplify each of these fractions
the first fraction will become
x to the power of 5 divided by x to the
power of 4
plus x to the power 6. the second
fraction will be x to the power 5
divided by x to the power of 3 plus x to
the power of 7.
the next fraction will be x to the power
5 divided by x squared plus x cubed
and the last fraction will be x to the
power 5 divided by
x plus x to the power of 4.
from here we'll simplify each fraction
recall that x to the power 5 is equal to
1.
so all of the numerators will become 1.
then x to the power of 6
is equal to x which we'll substitute
into the first fraction
from here x to the power of 7 is equal
to x squared so we'll substitute that
into the second fraction
from here the second and third fractions
have exactly the same denominator
so their sum will be 2 divided by x
squared plus
x cubed then the first and last
fractions also have the same denominator
so their sum will be 2 divided by x plus
x to the power 4. we now want to add
these two fractions
to do that we'll get a common
denominator
so from the first fraction we'll
multiply by x plus x
to the power 4 divided by x plus x to
the power 4.
in the second fraction we'll multiply by
x squared plus x
cubed divided by x squared plus x cubed
the first fraction simplifies to be the
following the second fraction simplifies
to be the following
we then want to sum these two fractions
since they have the same denominator
we can simply sum their numerators so we
get the following fraction
we can then simplify this because we'll
recall that x to the power of 6 is equal
to x
and x to the power 7 is equal to x
squared so the denominator
becomes the following and then we'll
simply
rearrange it in ascending order so we
finally have this fraction
where we have two multiplied by x plus x
squared plus x cubed plus x to the
fourth
and the denominator is exactly that same
quantity x plus x squared plus x cubed
plus x to the power 4.
so these two quantities will cancel
and thus this all simplifies to be
exactly equal to 2.
the answer is too good
thanks for making us one of the best
channels on youtube
see you next episode of mind your
decisions where we solve the world's
problems
one video at a time
[Music]
you